[Music]
[Applause]
just a few minutes ago I took this
picture about ten blocks from here this
is the Grand Cafe here in Oxford I took
this picture because this turns out to
be the first coffeehouse to open in
England in 1650 that's its great claim
to fame and I wanted to show it to you
not because I want to give you the kind
of you know Starbucks tour of historic
England but rather because the English
coffeehouse was crucial to the
development and spread of one of the
great intellectual flowerings of the
last 500 years what we now call the
Enlightenment and the coffeehouse played
such a big role in in the birth of the
Enlightenment in part because of what
people were drinking there right because
before the the spread of coffee and and
tea through British culture what people
drank both elite and and maths folks
drank day in and day out from from dawn
until dusk was alcohol right alcohol was
the daytime beverage of choice you would
drink a little beer with breakfast and
have a little wine at lunch a little gin
particularly around 1650 and top it off
a little beer and wine at the end of the
day that was the healthy choice right
because the water wasn't safe to drink
and so effectively in until the rise of
the coffeehouse you had an entire
population that was effectively drunk
all day and you can imagine what that
would be like right in your own life and
I know this is true of some of you if
you were drinking all day and and then
you switched from a depressant to a
stimulant in your life you would have
better ideas you would be sharper and
more alert and so it's not an accident
that a great flowering of innovation
happened as England switched to tea and
coffee but the other thing that makes
the coffeehouse important is that is the
architecture of the space it was a space
where people would get together from
different backgrounds different fields
of expertise and share was a space as
Matt Ridley talked about where ideas
could have sex right this was there a
conjugal bed in a sense ideas would get
together there and an astonishing number
of innovations from this period have a
coffee house somewhere in in their story
I've been spending a lot of time
thinking about coffee houses for the
last five years because I've been kind
of in on this quest
to investigate this question of where
good ideas come from what are the
environments that lead to unusual levels
of innovation unusual levels of
creativity what's the kind of
environmental what is the space of
creativity and what I've done is I've
looked at both environments like the
coffeehouse I've looked at like media
environments like the world wide web
that have been extraordinarily
innovative I've gone back to the the
history of the first cities I've even
gone to biological environments like
coral reefs and rainforests that involve
unusual levels of biological innovation
and what I've been looking for is shared
patterns kind of signature behavior that
shows up again and again in all these
environments are there recurring
patterns that we can learn from that we
can take and a kind of apply to our own
lives or our own organizations or own
environments to make them more creative
and innovative and I think I've found a
few but what you have to do to make
sense of this and to really understand
that these principles is you have to do
away with a lot of the way in which our
kind of conventional metaphors and
language steers us towards certain
concepts of idea creation right we have
this very rich vocabulary to describe
moments of inspiration right we have
that kind of the flash of insight the
stroke of insight we have epiphanies we
have Eureka moments we have the
lightbulb moments right all of these
concepts is kind of rhetorically florid
as they are share this basic assumption
which is that an idea is a single thing
it's something that happens often in a
wonderful illuminating moment but in
fact what I would argue and what you
really need to kind of begin with is
this idea that an idea is a network on
the most elemental level right I mean
this is what is happening inside your
brain an idea a new idea is a new
network of neurons firing and sync with
each other inside your brain it's a new
configuration that is never formed
before right and the question is how do
you get your brain into environments
where these new networks are going to be
more likely to form it turns out that in
fact the kind of network patterns of the
outside world mimic a lot of the network
patterns of the internal world of a
human brain so the metaphor I'd like to
use is actually I can take from from a
story of a great idea
that that's quite recent a lot more
recent than the the 1650s a wonderful
guy named Timothy pressure Oh has a
company called an organization called
design that matters they decided to
tackle this really pressing problem of
you know the terrible problems we have
with infant mortality rates in the in
the developing world one of the things
that's very frustrating about this is
that we know by getting modern neonatal
incubators into you know any context if
we can keep premature babies warm
basically it's very simple we can have
infant mortality rates in those
environments so the technology is there
we have these these are standard and in
all the industrialized worlds the
problem is if you buy a $40,000
incubator and you send it off to a
mid-sized village in Africa it will work
great for a year or two years and then
something will go wrong and it will
break and it will remain broken forever
because you don't have a whole system of
spare parts and you don't have the
on-the-ground expertise to fix this
40,000 dollar piece of equipment and so
you end up having this from where you
spend all this money getting aid and all
this advanced electronics to these
countries and then it ends up being
useless
so what presto and his team decided to
do is to look around and see what are
the kind of abundant resources in these
developing world contexts what they
noticed was they don't have a lot of
DVRs they don't have a lot of microwaves
but they seem to do a pretty good job of
keeping their cars on the road right
there's a Toyota 4runner on this on the
street and all in all these places they
seem to have the expertise to keep cars
working so they started to think could
we build a neonatal incubator that's
built entirely out of automobile parts
and this is what they ended up coming
with it's called the Neo nurture device
from the outside it looks like a normal
little thing you'd find in a modern
Western Hospital in the inside it's all
car parts it's got a fan it's got
headlights for warmth it's got door
chimes for alarm it runs off a car
battery and so all you need is the spare
parts from your Toyota and the ability
to fix a headlight and you can repair
this thing now that's a great idea but
I'd like to say is that in fact this is
a great metaphor for the way that ideas
happen we like to think our breakthrough
ideas you know or like that forty
thousand dollar brand new incubator
state-of-the-art technology but more
often than not they're cobbled together
from whatever parts that happen to be
around nearby we take
ideas from other people from people
we've learned from for people we run
into in the coffee shop and we stitch
them together into new forms and we
create something new that's really where
innovation happens and that means that
we have to change some of our models of
kind of what innovation and deep
thinking really looks like right I mean
this is one vision of it
another is Newton and the Apple this is
a statue that Newton was at Cambridge
this is a statue from Oxford you know
you're sitting there thinking a deep
thought and the Apple falls from the
tree and you have a theory of gravity in
fact the spaces that have historically
led to innovation tend to look like this
right this is Hogarth's famous painting
of a kind of political dinner at a
tavern but this is what the coffee shops
look like back then this is the kind of
chaotic environment where ideas were
likely to come together where people are
likely to have kind of new interesting
unpredictable collisions people from
different backgrounds so if we're trying
to build organizations that are more
innovative we have to build spaces that
strangely enough look a little bit more
like this this is what your office
should look like it's part of my message
here and one of the problems with this
is that people are actually when you
when you research this field people are
notoriously unreliable when they
actually kind of self-report on where
they have their own good ideas or their
history of of their best ideas and a few
years ago wonderful researcher named
Kevin Dunbar decided to go around and
basically do the Big Brother approach to
figuring out where good ideas come from
he went to a bunch of science labs
around the world and videotaped everyone
as they were doing every little bit of
their job so when they were sitting in
front of the microscope when they were
talking to their colleagues at the
watercooler and all these things and he
and he recorded all these conversations
and tried to figure out where the most
important ideas where they happened and
when we think about the you know the
classic image of the scientist in the
lab we have this image you know they're
pouring over the microscope and they see
something you know in the tissue sample
on Eureka they've got the idea what
happened actually when Dunbar kind of
looked at the tape is that in fact
almost all the important breakthrough
ideas did not happen alone in the lab in
front of the microscope they happened at
the conference table at the weekly lab
meeting when everybody got together and
shared their kind of latest data and
findings oftentimes when people shared
the mistakes they were having an error
the noise and the signal they were they
were discovering and something about
that environment and I've started
calling into kind of the liquid network
where you have lots of different eyes
ideas that are together different
backgrounds different interests jostling
with each other bouncing off each other
that environment is in fact the
environment that leads to innovation the
other problem that people have is they
like to condense their stories of
innovation down to kind of shorter time
frames so they want to tell the story of
the Eureka moment they want to say there
I was I was standing there and I had it
all suddenly clear in my head but in
fact if you go back and look at the
historical record it turns out that a
lot of important ideas have very long
incubation periods I call this the slow
hunch I've heard a lot recently about
you know kind of hunch and instinct and
kind of blink like sudden moments of
clarity but in fact a lot of great ideas
linger on sometimes for decades in the
back of people's minds they have a
feeling that there's an interesting
problem but they don't quite have the
tools yet to discover them they spent
all this time you know kind of working
on certain problems but there's another
thing lingering there that they're
interested in but they can't quite solve
Darwin is a great example of this Darwin
himself in his autobiography tells the
story of coming up with the idea for
natural selection as a classic Eureka
moment he's in his study
it's October of 1838 and he's reading
Malthus actually on population and all
of a sudden the basic algorithm of
natural selection kind of pops into his
head and he says ah at last I had a
theory with which to work that's in his
autobiography about a decade or two ago
a wonderful scholar named Howard Gruber
went back and looked at Darwin's
notebooks from these from this period
and Darwin kept these copious notebooks
where he wrote down every little idea he
had every little hunch and what Gruber
found was that the Harwin had the full
theory of natural selection for months
and months and months before he had his
alleged epiphany reading Malthus in
October of 1838 their passages where you
can read it and you think like you're
reading from a Darwin textbook from the
period before he has this epiphany and
so what you realize is that Darwin in a
sense had the idea he had the concept
but was unable of fully thinking it yet
and that is actually how great ideas
often happen they fade into view over
long periods of time now the challenge
for all of us is how do you create
environments that allow these ideas to
have this kind of
long half-life right it's hard to go to
your boss and say I have an excellent
idea for our organization it will be
useful in 2020 could you just give me
some time to do that now a couple of
companies like Google they have
innovation time off 20% time where in a
sense those are hunch cultivating
mechanisms in an organization but that's
that's a key thing and the other thing
is to allow those hunches to connect
with other people's hunches that's what
often happens you have half of an idea
somebody else has the other half and if
you're in the right environment they
turn into something larger than the sum
of their parts so in a sense we often
talk about the value of protecting
intellectual property you know building
barricades having secretive R&D labs
patenting everything that we have so
that those ideas will remain valuable
and people will be incentivized to come
up with more ideas and the culture will
be more innovative but I think there's a
case we made that we should spend at
least as much time if not more valuing
the premise of connecting ideas and not
just protecting them and I'll leave you
with this story which I think captures a
lot of these values and it's just a just
a wonderful kind of tale of innovation
and how it happens in unlikely ways it's
October of 1957 and Sputnik has just
launched and we're in Laurel Maryland at
the Applied Physics lab associated with
Johns Hopkins University and it's Monday
morning and the news is just broken
about this satellite that's now orbiting
the planet and of course this is nerd
heaven right there all these physics
geeks who are there thinking oh my gosh
this is incredible I can't believe this
has happened
and two of them two twenty-something
researchers at the APL are there at the
cafeteria table having an informal
conversation with a bunch of their
colleagues and these two guys and in
Geier and wife and back and they start
talking and and one of them says hey you
know has anybody tried to listen for
this thing there's this you know
man-made satellite up there in outer
space it's obviously broadcasting some
kind of signal we could probably hear it
if we tuned in and so they asked around
to a couple of their colleagues and and
everybody said no I hadn't thought of
doing that that's know that's an
interesting idea
and it turns out wife and Bach is kind
of an expert in microwave reception and
he's got a little antenna set up with an
amplifier in his office and so garen
wife Rebecca
back to wipe their backs office and they
start kind of noodling around hacking as
we might call it now and after a couple
of hours they actually start picking up
this signal because the Soviets made
Sputnik very easy to track it was right
at 20 megahertz so that you could you
could pick it up really easily because
they were afraid that people would think
it was a hoax basically so they made it
really easy to to find it and so these
two guys are sitting there listening to
this signal and people start kind of
coming into the office and saying wow
that's pretty cool can I hear well
that's great and and before long they
think well geez this is kind of historic
we may be the first people in the United
States to be listening to this we should
record it and so they bring in this big
clunky analog tape recorder and they
start recording these little bleep
bleeps and they start writing down the
kind of date stamp time stamps for each
for each little bleep that they record
and then they start thinking well gosh
you know we're noticing small little
frequency variations here we could
probably calculate the speed that the
satellite is traveling if we if we do a
little basic math here using the the
Doppler effect and then they played
around with it a little bit more and
they talked to a couple of their
colleagues who had other kind of
specialties and they said geez you know
I think we could actually look at the
slope of the Doppler effect to figure
out the points at which the satellite is
closest to our antenna and the points at
which it's farthest away that's pretty
cool and eventually they get permission
this is all a little side project that
you know hadn't been officially part of
their job description they get
permission to use the new you know
univac computer that takes up an entire
room that they've just gotten at the APL
and they they run some more of the
numbers at the end of about three or
four weeks turns out they have mapped
the exact trajectory of this satellite
around the earth just from listening to
this one little signal going off on this
little side hunch that had been inspired
to do over over lunch one morning a
couple weeks later their boss Frank
McClure pulls him into the room and says
hey you guys I have to ask you something
about that project you were working on
you've figured out an unknown location
of a satellite orbiting the planet from
a known location on the ground could you
go the other way could you figure out an
unknown location on the ground if you
knew the location of the satellite and
they thought about it and they said well
I guess maybe you could let's let's run
the numbers here and so they went back
and they thought about
they came back and said actually will be
easier and he said oh that's great
because see I have these new nuclear
submarines that I'm building and it's
really hard to figure out how to get
your missile so that it will land right
on top of Moscow if you don't know where
the submarine is in the middle of the
Pacific Ocean
so we're thinking we could throw up a
bunch of satellites and use it to track
our submarines and figure out their
location in the middle of the ocean
could you work on that problem and
that's how GPS was born thirty years
later Ronald Reagan actually opened it
up and made it an open platform that
anybody could kind of build upon and
anybody could come along and build new
technology that would that would create
and innovate on top of this open
platform left it open for anyone to do
pretty much anything they wanted with it
and now I guarantee you you know
certainly half this room if not more has
a device sitting in their pocket right
now that is talking to one of these
satellites in outer space and I bet you
one of you if not more has used said
device and said satellite system to
locate a nearby coffee house somewhere
in the last and the last day or last
week right and that I think is a great
case study a great lesson in in the
power the marvelous kind of unplanned
emergent unpredictable power of open
innovative systems when you build them
right they will be led to completely new
directions that the creators never even
dreamed up I mean here you have these
guys who basically thought they were
just following this hunch
and this little passion that had
developed then they thought they were
fighting the Cold War and then it turns
out they're just helping somebody find a
soy latte
that is how innovation happens chance
favors the connected mind thank you very
much
[Applause]
investment in broadband high-speed
Internet can help small businesses
create new American jobs small
businesses are being formed dreams are
being launched and at AT&T we're
investing billions to upgrade and build
out our wired and wireless networks now
is not the time to stall momentum or
stifle innovation or investment jobs
dreams and the future are at stake AT&T
your world delivered